# Texas Family Code - Child Possession Laws
_Auto-generated from texas.public.law_
_§153.314 Holiday Possession is the primary statute for co-parenting calendars_

## §153.001 -- Public Policy

ties of Nonparent Appointed as Sole Managing Conservator 153.372 Nonparent Appointed as Joint Managing Conservator 153.373 Voluntary Surrender of Possession Rebuts Parental Presumption 153.374 Designation of Managing Conservator in Affidavit of Relinquishment 153.375 Annual Report by Nonparent Managing Conservator 153.376 Rights and Duties of Nonparent Possessory Conservator 153.377 Access to Child’s Records 153.431 Appointment of Grandparent, Aunt, or Uncle as Managing Conservator 153.432 Suit for Possession or Access by Grandparent 153.433 Possession of or Access to Grandchild 153.434 Limitation on Right to Request Possession or Access 153.501 Necessity of Measures to Prevent International Parental Child Abduction 153.502 Abduction Risk Factors 153.503 Abduction Prevention Measures 153.551 Suit for Access 153.601 Definitions 153.602 Parenting Plan Not Required in Temporary Order 153.603 Requirement of Parenting Plan in Final Order 153.605 Appointment of Parenting Coordinator 153.606 Duties of Parenting Coordinator 153.607 Presumption of Good Faith 153.608 Report of Parenting Coordinator 153.609 Compensation of Parenting Coordinator 153.610 Qualifications of Parenting Coordinator 153.611 Exception for Certain Title Iv-d Proceedings 153.701 Definitions 153.702 Temporary Orders 153.703 Appointing Designated Person for Conservator with Exclusive Right to Designate Primary Residence of Child 153.704 Appointing Designated Person to Exercise Visitation for Conservator with Exclusive Right to Designate Primary Residence of Child in Certain Circumstances 153.705 Appointing Designated Person to Exercise Visitation for Conservator Without Exclusive Right to Designate Primary Residence of Child 153.707 Expedited Hearing 153.708 Enforcement 153.709 Additional Periods of Possession or Access 153.00715 Determination of Validity and Enforceability of Contract Containing Agreement to Arbitrate 153.3721 Access to Certain Records by Nonparent Joint Managing Conservator 153.6031 Exception to Dispute Resolution Process Requirement 153.6051 Appointment of Parenting Facilitator 153.6061 Duties of Parenting Facilitator 153.6071 Presumption of Good Faith 153.6081 Report of Parenting Facilitator 153.6082 Report of Joint Proposal or Statement of Intent 153.6083 Communications and Recordkeeping of Parenting Facilitator 153.6091 Compensation of Parenting Facilitator 153.6101 Qualifications of Parenting Facilitator 153.6102 Parenting Facilitator Up to date Verified: May 26, 2025 § 153.001. Pub. Policy's source at texas​.gov &nbsp; (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Stay Connected Join thousands of people who receive monthly site updates. Subscribe Get Legal Help The State Bar of Texas runs a service for finding an attorney in good standing. Initial consultations are usually free or discounted: Lawyer Referral &amp; Information Service (LRIS) Committed to Public Service We will always provide free access to the current law. In addition, we provide special support for non-profit, educational, and government users. Through social entre­pre­neurship, we’re lowering the cost of legal services and increasing citizen access. Navigate Find a Lawyer Blog About Us API Contact Us Reports Secondary Sources Privacy Policy California: Codes Colorado: C.R.S. Florida: Statutes Nevada: NRS New York: Laws Oregon: OAR , ORS Texas: Statutes World: Rome Statute , International Dictionary Location: https://texas.public.law/statutes/tex._fam._code_section_153.001 Original Source: Section 153.001 — Public Policy , https://statutes.&shy;capitol.&shy;texas.&shy;gov/Docs/FA/htm/FA.&shy;153.&shy;htm#153.&shy;001 (last ac&shy;cessed May 10, 2025). Blank Outline Levels &times; The legislature occasionally skips outline levels. For example: (3) A person may apply [...] (4)(a) A person petitioning for relief [...] In this example, (3) , (4) , and (4)(a) are all outline levels, but (4) was omitted by its authors. It's only implied. This presents an interesting challenge when laying out the text. We've decided to display a blank section with this note, in order to aide readability. Trust but verify. Here is the original source for section 153.001 Do you have an opinion about this solution? Drop us a line. Close 

---

## §153.002 -- Best Interest of Child

shment 153.375 Annual Report by Nonparent Managing Conservator 153.376 Rights and Duties of Nonparent Possessory Conservator 153.377 Access to Child’s Records 153.431 Appointment of Grandparent, Aunt, or Uncle as Managing Conservator 153.432 Suit for Possession or Access by Grandparent 153.433 Possession of or Access to Grandchild 153.434 Limitation on Right to Request Possession or Access 153.501 Necessity of Measures to Prevent International Parental Child Abduction 153.502 Abduction Risk Factors 153.503 Abduction Prevention Measures 153.551 Suit for Access 153.601 Definitions 153.602 Parenting Plan Not Required in Temporary Order 153.603 Requirement of Parenting Plan in Final Order 153.605 Appointment of Parenting Coordinator 153.606 Duties of Parenting Coordinator 153.607 Presumption of Good Faith 153.608 Report of Parenting Coordinator 153.609 Compensation of Parenting Coordinator 153.610 Qualifications of Parenting Coordinator 153.611 Exception for Certain Title Iv-d Proceedings 153.701 Definitions 153.702 Temporary Orders 153.703 Appointing Designated Person for Conservator with Exclusive Right to Designate Primary Residence of Child 153.704 Appointing Designated Person to Exercise Visitation for Conservator with Exclusive Right to Designate Primary Residence of Child in Certain Circumstances 153.705 Appointing Designated Person to Exercise Visitation for Conservator Without Exclusive Right to Designate Primary Residence of Child 153.707 Expedited Hearing 153.708 Enforcement 153.709 Additional Periods of Possession or Access 153.00715 Determination of Validity and Enforceability of Contract Containing Agreement to Arbitrate 153.3721 Access to Certain Records by Nonparent Joint Managing Conservator 153.6031 Exception to Dispute Resolution Process Requirement 153.6051 Appointment of Parenting Facilitator 153.6061 Duties of Parenting Facilitator 153.6071 Presumption of Good Faith 153.6081 Report of Parenting Facilitator 153.6082 Report of Joint Proposal or Statement of Intent 153.6083 Communications and Recordkeeping of Parenting Facilitator 153.6091 Compensation of Parenting Facilitator 153.6101 Qualifications of Parenting Facilitator 153.6102 Parenting Facilitator Up to date Verified: May 26, 2025 § 153.002. Best Interest of Child's source at texas​.gov &nbsp; (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Stay Connected Join thousands of people who receive monthly site updates. Subscribe Get Legal Help The State Bar of Texas runs a service for finding an attorney in good standing. Initial consultations are usually free or discounted: Lawyer Referral &amp; Information Service (LRIS) Committed to Public Service We will always provide free access to the current law. In addition, we provide special support for non-profit, educational, and government users. Through social entre­pre­neurship, we’re lowering the cost of legal services and increasing citizen access. Navigate Find a Lawyer Blog About Us API Contact Us Reports Secondary Sources Privacy Policy California: Codes Colorado: C.R.S. Florida: Statutes Nevada: NRS New York: Laws Oregon: OAR , ORS Texas: Statutes World: Rome Statute , International Dictionary Location: https://texas.public.law/statutes/tex._fam._code_section_153.002 Original Source: Section 153.002 — Best Interest of Child , https://statutes.&shy;capitol.&shy;texas.&shy;gov/Docs/FA/htm/FA.&shy;153.&shy;htm#153.&shy;002 (last ac&shy;cessed May 10, 2025). Blank Outline Levels &times; The legislature occasionally skips outline levels. For example: (3) A person may apply [...] (4)(a) A person petitioning for relief [...] In this example, (3) , (4) , and (4)(a) are all outline levels, but (4) was omitted by its authors. It's only implied. This presents an interesting challenge when laying out the text. We've decided to display a blank section with this note, in order to aide readability. Trust but verify. Here is the original source for section 153.002 Do you have an opinion about this solution? Drop us a line. Close 

---

## §153.312 -- Possessory Conservator Rights and Duties

 Tax Code The Texas Constitution Transportation Code Utilities Code Water Code Stay Connected Join thousands of people who receive monthly site updates. Subscribe Get Legal Help The State Bar of Texas runs a service for finding an attorney in good standing. Initial consultations are usually free or discounted: Lawyer Referral &amp; Information Service (LRIS) Committed to Public Service We will always provide free access to the current law. In addition, we provide special support for non-profit, educational, and government users. Through social entre­pre­neurship, we’re lowering the cost of legal services and increasing citizen access. Navigate Find a Lawyer Blog About Us API Contact Us Reports Secondary Sources Privacy Policy California: Codes Colorado: C.R.S. Florida: Statutes Nevada: NRS New York: Laws Oregon: OAR , ORS Texas: Statutes World: Rome Statute , International Dictionary Location: https://texas.public.law/statutes Blank Outline Levels &times; The legislature occasionally skips outline levels. For example: (3) A person may apply [...] (4)(a) A person petitioning for relief [...] In this example, (3) , (4) , and (4)(a) are all outline levels, but (4) was omitted by its authors. It's only implied. This presents an interesting challenge when laying out the text. We've decided to display a blank section with this note, in order to aide readability. Do you have an opinion about this solution? Drop us a line. Close 

---

## §153.314 -- Holiday Possession Unaffected by Distance

The following provisions govern possession of the child for certain specific holidays and supersede conflicting weekend or Thursday periods of possession without regard to the distance the parents reside apart. The possessory conservator and the managing conservator shall have rights of possession of the child as follows: (1) the possessory conservator shall have possession of the child in even-numbered years beginning at 6 p.m. on the day the child is dismissed from school for the Christmas school vacation and ending at noon on December 28, and the managing conservator shall have possession for the same period in odd-numbered years; (2) the possessory conservator shall have possession of the child in odd-numbered years beginning at noon on December 28 and ending at 6 p.m. on the day before school resumes after that vacation, and the managing conservator shall have possession for the same period in even-numbered years; (3) the possessory conservator shall have possession of the child in odd-numbered years, beginning at 6 p.m. on the day the child is dismissed from school before Thanksgiving and ending at 6 p.m. on the following Sunday, and the managing conservator shall have possession for the same period in even-numbered years; (4) the parent not otherwise entitled under this standard possession order to present possession of a child on the child’s birthday shall have possession of the child beginning at 6 p.m. and ending at 8 p.m. on that day, provided that the parent picks up the child from the residence of the conservator entitled to possession and returns the child to that same place; (5) if a conservator, the father shall have possession of the child beginning at 6 p.m. on the Friday preceding Father’s Day and ending on Father’s Day at 6 p.m., provided that, if he is not otherwise entitled under this standard possession order to present possession of the child, he picks up the child from the residence of the conservator entitled to possession and returns the child to that same place; and (6) if a conservator, the mother shall have possession of the child beginning at 6 p.m. on the Friday preceding Mother’s Day and ending on Mother’s Day at 6 p.m., provided that, if she is not otherwise entitled under this standard possession order to present possession of the child, she picks up the child from the residence of the conservator entitled to possession and returns the child to that same place. Added by Acts 1995, 74th Leg., ch. 20, Sec. 1, eff. April 20, 1995. Amended by Acts 2003, 78th Leg., ch. 1036, Sec. 14, eff. Sept. 1, 2003. Amended by: Acts 2007, 80th Leg., R.S., Ch. 1041 (H.B. 1864 ), Sec. 3, eff. June 15, 2007. Acts 2009, 81st Leg., R.S., Ch. 1113 (H.B. 1012 ), Sec. 8, eff. September 1, 2009. Source: Section 153.314 — Holiday Possession Unaffected by Distance Parents Reside Apart , https://statutes.&shy;capitol.&shy;texas.&shy;gov/Docs/FA/htm/FA.&shy;153.&shy;htm#153.&shy;314 (accessed May 26, 2025). 153.001 Public Policy 153.002 Best Interest of Child 153.003 No Discrimination Based on Sex or Marital Status 153.004 History of Domestic Violence or Sexual Abuse 153.005 Appointment of Sole or Joint Managing Conservator 153.006 Appointment of Possessory Conservator 153.007 Agreed Parenting Plan 153.009 Interview of Child in Chambers 153.010 Order for Family Counseling 153.011 Security Bond 153.012 Right to Privacy 153.013 False Report of Child Abuse 153.014 Visitation Centers and Visitation Exchange Facilities 153.015 Electronic Communication with Child by Conservator 153.0071 Alternate Dispute Resolution Procedures 153.071 Court to Specify Rights and Duties of Parent Appointed a Conservator 153.072 Written Finding Required to Limit Parental Rights and Duties 153.073 Rights of Parent at All Times 153.074 Rights and Duties During Period of Possession 153.075 Duties of Parent Not Appointed Conservator 153.076 Duty to Provide Information 153.131 Presumption that Parent to Be Appointed Managing Conservator 153.132 Rights and Duties of Parent Appointed Sole Managing Conservator 153.133 Parenting Plan for Joint Managing Conservatorship 153.134 Court-ordered Joint Conservatorship 153.135 Equal Possession Not Required 153.138 Child Support Order Affecting Joint Conservators 153.191 Presumption that Parent to Be Appointed Possessory Conservator 153.192 Rights and Duties of Parent Appointed Possessory Conservator 153.193 Minimal Restriction on Parent’s Possession or Access 153.251 Policy and General Application of Guidelines 153.252 Rebuttable Presumption 153.253 Standard Possession Order Inappropriate or Unworkable 153.254 Child Less than Three Years of Age 153.255 Agreement 153.256 Factors for Court to Consider 153.257 Means of Travel 153.258 Request for Findings When Order Varies from Standard Order 153.311 Mutual Agreement or Specified Terms for Possession 153.314 Holiday Possession Unaffected by Distance Parents Reside Apart 153.315 Weekend Possession Extended by Holiday 153.316 General Terms and Conditi

---

## §153.315 -- Weekend Possession Extended by Holiday

ion Extended by Holiday 153.316 General Terms and Conditions 153.317 Alternative Beginning and Ending Possession Times 153.371 Rights and Duties of Nonparent Appointed as Sole Managing Conservator 153.372 Nonparent Appointed as Joint Managing Conservator 153.373 Voluntary Surrender of Possession Rebuts Parental Presumption 153.374 Designation of Managing Conservator in Affidavit of Relinquishment 153.375 Annual Report by Nonparent Managing Conservator 153.376 Rights and Duties of Nonparent Possessory Conservator 153.377 Access to Child’s Records 153.431 Appointment of Grandparent, Aunt, or Uncle as Managing Conservator 153.432 Suit for Possession or Access by Grandparent 153.433 Possession of or Access to Grandchild 153.434 Limitation on Right to Request Possession or Access 153.501 Necessity of Measures to Prevent International Parental Child Abduction 153.502 Abduction Risk Factors 153.503 Abduction Prevention Measures 153.551 Suit for Access 153.601 Definitions 153.602 Parenting Plan Not Required in Temporary Order 153.603 Requirement of Parenting Plan in Final Order 153.605 Appointment of Parenting Coordinator 153.606 Duties of Parenting Coordinator 153.607 Presumption of Good Faith 153.608 Report of Parenting Coordinator 153.609 Compensation of Parenting Coordinator 153.610 Qualifications of Parenting Coordinator 153.611 Exception for Certain Title Iv-d Proceedings 153.701 Definitions 153.702 Temporary Orders 153.703 Appointing Designated Person for Conservator with Exclusive Right to Designate Primary Residence of Child 153.704 Appointing Designated Person to Exercise Visitation for Conservator with Exclusive Right to Designate Primary Residence of Child in Certain Circumstances 153.705 Appointing Designated Person to Exercise Visitation for Conservator Without Exclusive Right to Designate Primary Residence of Child 153.707 Expedited Hearing 153.708 Enforcement 153.709 Additional Periods of Possession or Access 153.00715 Determination of Validity and Enforceability of Contract Containing Agreement to Arbitrate 153.3721 Access to Certain Records by Nonparent Joint Managing Conservator 153.6031 Exception to Dispute Resolution Process Requirement 153.6051 Appointment of Parenting Facilitator 153.6061 Duties of Parenting Facilitator 153.6071 Presumption of Good Faith 153.6081 Report of Parenting Facilitator 153.6082 Report of Joint Proposal or Statement of Intent 153.6083 Communications and Recordkeeping of Parenting Facilitator 153.6091 Compensation of Parenting Facilitator 153.6101 Qualifications of Parenting Facilitator 153.6102 Parenting Facilitator Up to date Verified: May 26, 2025 § 153.315. Weekend Possession Extended by Holiday's source at texas​.gov &nbsp; (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Stay Connected Join thousands of people who receive monthly site updates. Subscribe Get Legal Help The State Bar of Texas runs a service for finding an attorney in good standing. Initial consultations are usually free or discounted: Lawyer Referral &amp; Information Service (LRIS) Committed to Public Service We will always provide free access to the current law. In addition, we provide special support for non-profit, educational, and government users. Through social entre­pre­neurship, we’re lowering the cost of legal services and increasing citizen access. Navigate Find a Lawyer Blog About Us API Contact Us Reports Secondary Sources Privacy Policy California: Codes Colorado: C.R.S. Florida: Statutes Nevada: NRS New York: Laws Oregon: OAR , ORS Texas: Statutes World: Rome Statute , International Dictionary Location: https://texas.public.law/statutes/tex._fam._code_section_153.315 Original Source: Section 153.315 — Weekend Possession Extended by Holiday , https://statutes.&shy;capitol.&shy;texas.&shy;gov/Docs/FA/htm/FA.&shy;153.&shy;htm#153.&shy;315 (last ac&shy;cessed May 10, 2025). Blank Outline Levels &times; The legislature occasionally skips outline levels. For example: (3) A person may apply [...] (4)(a) A person petitioning for relief [...] In this example, (3) , (4) , and (4)(a) are all outline levels, but (4) was omitted by its authors. It's only implied. This presents an interesting challenge when laying out the text. We've decided to display a blank section with this note, in order to aide readability. Trust but verify. Here is the original source for section 153.315 Do you have an opinion about this solution? Drop us a line. Close 

---

## §153.316 -- General Terms and Conditions

possession of the child on each occasion that the parent will be unable to exercise that parent’s right of possession for a specified period; (8) written notice, including notice provided by electronic mail or facsimile, shall be deemed to have been timely made if received or, if applicable, postmarked before or at the time that notice is due; and (9) if a conservator’s time of possession of a child ends at the time school resumes and for any reason the child is not or will not be returned to school, the conservator in possession of the child shall immediately notify the school and the other conservator that the child will not be or has not been returned to school. Added by Acts 1995, 74th Leg., ch. 20, Sec. 1, eff. April 20, 1995. Amended by Acts 1995, 74th Leg., ch. 751, Sec. 37, eff. Sept. 1, 1995; Acts 1997, 75th Leg., ch. 9, Sec. 1, eff. Sept. 1, 1997. Amended by: Acts 2013, 83rd Leg., R.S., Ch. 277 (H.B. 845 ), Sec. 1, eff. September 1, 2013. Source: Section 153.316 — General Terms and Conditions , https://statutes.&shy;capitol.&shy;texas.&shy;gov/Docs/FA/htm/FA.&shy;153.&shy;htm#153.&shy;316 (accessed May 26, 2025). 153.001 Public Policy 153.002 Best Interest of Child 153.003 No Discrimination Based on Sex or Marital Status 153.004 History of Domestic Violence or Sexual Abuse 153.005 Appointment of Sole or Joint Managing Conservator 153.006 Appointment of Possessory Conservator 153.007 Agreed Parenting Plan 153.009 Interview of Child in Chambers 153.010 Order for Family Counseling 153.011 Security Bond 153.012 Right to Privacy 153.013 False Report of Child Abuse 153.014 Visitation Centers and Visitation Exchange Facilities 153.015 Electronic Communication with Child by Conservator 153.0071 Alternate Dispute Resolution Procedures 153.071 Court to Specify Rights and Duties of Parent Appointed a Conservator 153.072 Written Finding Required to Limit Parental Rights and Duties 153.073 Rights of Parent at All Times 153.074 Rights and Duties During Period of Possession 153.075 Duties of Parent Not Appointed Conservator 153.076 Duty to Provide Information 153.131 Presumption that Parent to Be Appointed Managing Conservator 153.132 Rights and Duties of Parent Appointed Sole Managing Conservator 153.133 Parenting Plan for Joint Managing Conservatorship 153.134 Court-ordered Joint Conservatorship 153.135 Equal Possession Not Required 153.138 Child Support Order Affecting Joint Conservators 153.191 Presumption that Parent to Be Appointed Possessory Conservator 153.192 Rights and Duties of Parent Appointed Possessory Conservator 153.193 Minimal Restriction on Parent’s Possession or Access 153.251 Policy and General Application of Guidelines 153.252 Rebuttable Presumption 153.253 Standard Possession Order Inappropriate or Unworkable 153.254 Child Less than Three Years of Age 153.255 Agreement 153.256 Factors for Court to Consider 153.257 Means of Travel 153.258 Request for Findings When Order Varies from Standard Order 153.311 Mutual Agreement or Specified Terms for Possession 153.314 Holiday Possession Unaffected by Distance Parents Reside Apart 153.315 Weekend Possession Extended by Holiday 153.316 General Terms and Conditions 153.317 Alternative Beginning and Ending Possession Times 153.371 Rights and Duties of Nonparent Appointed as Sole Managing Conservator 153.372 Nonparent Appointed as Joint Managing Conservator 153.373 Voluntary Surrender of Possession Rebuts Parental Presumption 153.374 Designation of Managing Conservator in Affidavit of Relinquishment 153.375 Annual Report by Nonparent Managing Conservator 153.376 Rights and Duties of Nonparent Possessory Conservator 153.377 Access to Child’s Records 153.431 Appointment of Grandparent, Aunt, or Uncle as Managing Conservator 153.432 Suit for Possession or Access by Grandparent 153.433 Possession of or Access to Grandchild 153.434 Limitation on Right to Request Possession or Access 153.501 Necessity of Measures to Prevent International Parental Child Abduction 153.502 Abduction Risk Factors 153.503 Abduction Prevention Measures 153.551 Suit for Access 153.601 Definitions 153.602 Parenting Plan Not Required in Temporary Order 153.603 Requirement of Parenting Plan in Final Order 153.605 Appointment of Parenting Coordinator 153.606 Duties of Parenting Coordinator 153.607 Presumption of Good Faith 153.608 Report of Parenting Coordinator 153.609 Compensation of Parenting Coordinator 153.610 Qualifications of Parenting Coordinator 153.611 Exception for Certain Title Iv-d Proceedings 153.701 Definitions 153.702 Temporary Orders 153.703 Appointing Designated Person for Conservator with Exclusive Right to Designate Primary Residence of Child 153.704 Appointing Designated Person to Exercise Visitation for Conservator with Exclusive Right to Designate Primary Residence of Child in Certain Circumstances 153.705 Appointing Designated Person to Exercise Visitation for Conservator Without Exclusive Right to Designate Primary Residence of Child 153.707 Expedited Hearing 1

---

## §153.317 -- Alternative Beginning and Ending Possession Times

possession of the child as if the conservator had made the elections for alternative beginning and ending possession times under Sections 153.317 (Alternative Beginning and Ending Possession Times) (a)(1)(C), (2)(C), (3), (4), (5), (6), (7)(C), (8), and (9). (a) Except as provided by Subsection (b), if the possessory conservator resides not more than 50 miles from the primary residence of the child, the court shall alter the standard possession order under Sections 153.312 , 153.314 (Holiday Possession Unaffected by Distance Parents Reside Apart) , and 153.315 (Weekend Possession Extended by Holiday) to provide that the conservator has the right to possession of the child as if the conservator had made the elections for alternative beginning and ending possession times under Sections 153.317 (Alternative Beginning and Ending Possession Times) (a)(1)(C), (2)(C), (3), (4), (5), (6), (7)(C), and (8). (b) Subsection (a) does not apply if: (1) the possessory conservator declines one or more of the alternative beginning and ending possession times under Subsection (a) in a written document filed with the court or through an oral statement made in open court on the record; (2) the court is denying, restricting, or limiting the possessory conservator’s possession of or access to the child in the best interest of the child under Section 153.004 (History of Domestic Violence or Sexual Abuse) ; or (3) the court finds that one or more of the alternative beginning and ending possession times under Subsection (a) are not in the best interest of the child, including: (A) because the distances between residences make the possession schedule described by Subsection (a) unworkable or inappropriate considering the circumstances of the parties or the area in which the parties reside; (B) because before the filing of the suit, the possessory conservator did not frequently and continuously exercise the rights and duties of a parent with respect to the child; or (C) for any other reason the court considers relevant. (c) On the request of a party, the court shall make findings of fact and conclusions of law regarding the order under this section. Added by Acts 2021, 87th Leg., R.S., Ch. 896 (H.B. 3203 ), Sec. 2, eff. September 1, 2021. Added by Acts 2021, 87th Leg., R.S., Ch. 967 (S.B. 1936 ), Sec. 1, eff. September 1, 2021. Source: Section 153.317 — Alternative Beginning and Ending Possession Times , https://statutes.&shy;capitol.&shy;texas.&shy;gov/Docs/FA/htm/FA.&shy;153.&shy;htm#153.&shy;317 (accessed May 26, 2025). 153.001 Public Policy 153.002 Best Interest of Child 153.003 No Discrimination Based on Sex or Marital Status 153.004 History of Domestic Violence or Sexual Abuse 153.005 Appointment of Sole or Joint Managing Conservator 153.006 Appointment of Possessory Conservator 153.007 Agreed Parenting Plan 153.009 Interview of Child in Chambers 153.010 Order for Family Counseling 153.011 Security Bond 153.012 Right to Privacy 153.013 False Report of Child Abuse 153.014 Visitation Centers and Visitation Exchange Facilities 153.015 Electronic Communication with Child by Conservator 153.0071 Alternate Dispute Resolution Procedures 153.071 Court to Specify Rights and Duties of Parent Appointed a Conservator 153.072 Written Finding Required to Limit Parental Rights and Duties 153.073 Rights of Parent at All Times 153.074 Rights and Duties During Period of Possession 153.075 Duties of Parent Not Appointed Conservator 153.076 Duty to Provide Information 153.131 Presumption that Parent to Be Appointed Managing Conservator 153.132 Rights and Duties of Parent Appointed Sole Managing Conservator 153.133 Parenting Plan for Joint Managing Conservatorship 153.134 Court-ordered Joint Conservatorship 153.135 Equal Possession Not Required 153.138 Child Support Order Affecting Joint Conservators 153.191 Presumption that Parent to Be Appointed Possessory Conservator 153.192 Rights and Duties of Parent Appointed Possessory Conservator 153.193 Minimal Restriction on Parent’s Possession or Access 153.251 Policy and General Application of Guidelines 153.252 Rebuttable Presumption 153.253 Standard Possession Order Inappropriate or Unworkable 153.254 Child Less than Three Years of Age 153.255 Agreement 153.256 Factors for Court to Consider 153.257 Means of Travel 153.258 Request for Findings When Order Varies from Standard Order 153.311 Mutual Agreement or Specified Terms for Possession 153.314 Holiday Possession Unaffected by Distance Parents Reside Apart 153.315 Weekend Possession Extended by Holiday 153.316 General Terms and Conditions 153.317 Alternative Beginning and Ending Possession Times 153.371 Rights and Duties of Nonparent Appointed as Sole Managing Conservator 153.372 Nonparent Appointed as Joint Managing Conservator 153.373 Voluntary Surrender of Possession Rebuts Parental Presumption 153.374 Designation of Managing Conservator in Affidavit of Relinquishment 153.375 Annual Report by Nonparent Managing Conservator 153.376 Rights and Dutie

---

## §153.075 -- Duties of Parent Not Appointed Conservator

hment 153.375 Annual Report by Nonparent Managing Conservator 153.376 Rights and Duties of Nonparent Possessory Conservator 153.377 Access to Child’s Records 153.431 Appointment of Grandparent, Aunt, or Uncle as Managing Conservator 153.432 Suit for Possession or Access by Grandparent 153.433 Possession of or Access to Grandchild 153.434 Limitation on Right to Request Possession or Access 153.501 Necessity of Measures to Prevent International Parental Child Abduction 153.502 Abduction Risk Factors 153.503 Abduction Prevention Measures 153.551 Suit for Access 153.601 Definitions 153.602 Parenting Plan Not Required in Temporary Order 153.603 Requirement of Parenting Plan in Final Order 153.605 Appointment of Parenting Coordinator 153.606 Duties of Parenting Coordinator 153.607 Presumption of Good Faith 153.608 Report of Parenting Coordinator 153.609 Compensation of Parenting Coordinator 153.610 Qualifications of Parenting Coordinator 153.611 Exception for Certain Title Iv-d Proceedings 153.701 Definitions 153.702 Temporary Orders 153.703 Appointing Designated Person for Conservator with Exclusive Right to Designate Primary Residence of Child 153.704 Appointing Designated Person to Exercise Visitation for Conservator with Exclusive Right to Designate Primary Residence of Child in Certain Circumstances 153.705 Appointing Designated Person to Exercise Visitation for Conservator Without Exclusive Right to Designate Primary Residence of Child 153.707 Expedited Hearing 153.708 Enforcement 153.709 Additional Periods of Possession or Access 153.00715 Determination of Validity and Enforceability of Contract Containing Agreement to Arbitrate 153.3721 Access to Certain Records by Nonparent Joint Managing Conservator 153.6031 Exception to Dispute Resolution Process Requirement 153.6051 Appointment of Parenting Facilitator 153.6061 Duties of Parenting Facilitator 153.6071 Presumption of Good Faith 153.6081 Report of Parenting Facilitator 153.6082 Report of Joint Proposal or Statement of Intent 153.6083 Communications and Recordkeeping of Parenting Facilitator 153.6091 Compensation of Parenting Facilitator 153.6101 Qualifications of Parenting Facilitator 153.6102 Parenting Facilitator Up to date Verified: May 26, 2025 § 153.075. Duties of Parent Not Appointed Conservator's source at texas​.gov &nbsp; (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Stay Connected Join thousands of people who receive monthly site updates. Subscribe Get Legal Help The State Bar of Texas runs a service for finding an attorney in good standing. Initial consultations are usually free or discounted: Lawyer Referral &amp; Information Service (LRIS) Committed to Public Service We will always provide free access to the current law. In addition, we provide special support for non-profit, educational, and government users. Through social entre­pre­neurship, we’re lowering the cost of legal services and increasing citizen access. Navigate Find a Lawyer Blog About Us API Contact Us Reports Secondary Sources Privacy Policy California: Codes Colorado: C.R.S. Florida: Statutes Nevada: NRS New York: Laws Oregon: OAR , ORS Texas: Statutes World: Rome Statute , International Dictionary Location: https://texas.public.law/statutes/tex._fam._code_section_153.075 Original Source: Section 153.075 — Duties of Parent Not Appointed Conservator , https://statutes.&shy;capitol.&shy;texas.&shy;gov/Docs/FA/htm/FA.&shy;153.&shy;htm#153.&shy;075 (last ac&shy;cessed May 10, 2025). Blank Outline Levels &times; The legislature occasionally skips outline levels. For example: (3) A person may apply [...] (4)(a) A person petitioning for relief [...] In this example, (3) , (4) , and (4)(a) are all outline levels, but (4) was omitted by its authors. It's only implied. This presents an interesting challenge when laying out the text. We've decided to display a blank section with this note, in order to aide readability. Trust but verify. Here is the original source for section 153.075 Do you have an opinion about this solution? Drop us a line. Close 

---

